[Music]
the Fountain of Youth is a story as old
as humanity and typically it's a group
of people on a boat going to a jungle in
some sacred Temple and some elixir and
that's kind of been really what people
believe more generally a magic pill is
going to come that we take and it solves
the problems and what I wondered is is
the ability to slow the rate of aging
and then reversing aging that has
occurred possible now it's just hiding
in tens of thousands of scientific
Publications and a lot of really hard
work and so that's what my team and I
have been doing for the past two years
is collecting all the research doing all
the protocols and basically using
evidence-based medicine to explore this
question what is possible with today's
science
so in just like yes or no format do you
really believe where we're going that we
will actually be able to meaningfully
reverse aging I'm not saying that we'll
all be able to get to 18 but like is
this really a thing now
yes I love that you were thoughtful
about that I'm going to say something I
don't know if you're going to love this
or hate this so we've spent time
together before but it's been years
since I've seen you
and I mean this in a really good way but
you look like a Lord of the Rings elf
and like dude there's something about
the clarity in your skin the vibrancy in
your eyes I don't know so I'm really
really interested in slowing down aging
reversing aging I come at it the same
way that you do if when I lay my head
down I think I want to wake up tomorrow
then why would I not want this ride to
end we can get into some of the
complexities of of the question of ought
we do that later but I really do want to
get deep into the protocol so as I said
to you when you first arrived seeing you
on camera does not do justice to what
it's like to see you in person
um in terms of just the externally
visible markers of Health
really do like it does something to my
brain to be like oh this person looks
healthy
so the protocol I've I've watched a lot
of your videos on this you've gone into
tremendous depth about the blueprint
which I assume is the blueprint on how
to live in a way that slows down aging
and and possibly at some point will
reverse it but what is the protocol it
is very complex so I'd love to before we
get into the minutia what's the
organizing principle to the blueprint
that if you can measure every organ of
the body and let the organs speak about
what it wants to be in an ideal state
reference gold standard scientific
evidence and then create a protocol and
then have perfect adherence you'd create
a system where the body can maintain
itself in an optimal State now this is
in contrast to typically we approach
things in life where we think our brain
is the primary tool which solves all
problems before us well my brain as most
brains do is a cause of a lot of
self-destructive Behavior we are prone
to eat too much food or of the wrong
kind of food or drink or other
substances or spend too much time
consuming content not prioritizing sleep
and so the solution for me was to take
my mind it was very counter
counterintuitive remove my mind as a
problem-solving tool
Empower my body by measurement through
my entire body and then looking at the
evidence and so letting my body solve
its own problems of how to be in the
ideal state is the protocol and so I
just simply follow the data and so we
look at all the things you would imagine
like blood stool urine saliva MRI
ultrasound Fitness tests DNA methylation
microbiome everything we can measure we
measure and we take all that data we
look at the evidence and we just do this
again and again and so my responsibility
in this is to ensure perfect adherence
to the protocol and we can see how these
things work in an iterative basis I
heard you say that sleep and diet are
probably the two most important things
is that a true assessment given all the
data you've looked at now
it's a difficult
to
make too strong of statements about
power laws in the entirety because
most people reasonably look at this and
they see that it's not doable for the
average person yeah that's for your
protocol I will say that like I've got
the resources to pull it off I've even
got the discipline but I was like
this is a lot it's a lot it's a lot so
especially the part about needles in the
face that's why I was like oh God uh so
we'll get to that in a minute but so
okay it's hard to break down the power
law your point is correct if you're
going to get just a few things right
sleep I'd say
stop self-destructive behavior and get
good sleep like you don't even have to
eat vegetables berries and nuts like
that would be an advanced thing just
stop doing things that hurt you because
when you do things that cause
self-destructive Behavior it's so hard
that ruins your sleep which then ruins
your willpower to do be able to do good
things it's just a vicious cycle so
sleep well stop bad behaviors and it
gives you get you in a neutral position
to feel like you can start doing some
positive things in your life and gain
some momentum it's ironically it's a lot
of people we all know this uh if we go
to the gym and work out
we feel good about ourselves and later
in the day we want to reward ourselves
and sometimes we reward ourselves in a
way that offsets what happened in the
beginning of the of the good thing so
really the root of it is trying to get
at this self-destructive Tendencies we
have okay so I'll make a hypothesis
about what the self-destructive
behaviors are and why we do them and
tell me where I go wrong so I look at
everything through the lens of biology
so you're having a biological experience
I want that on my Tombstone like I
really want people if I die and you
don't solve this problem faster uh I
really want people to understand that
and to look at life through that lens so
they figure out okay the what you're
calling self-destructive Behavior there
was a biological route to that so if I
were to sum up quickly the biggest
problem people make is that they all
rounded to they eat a lot of sugar and
process foods and if they that's like
the biggest sin that everybody does in
terms of self-harm and to undo that
they have to understand that the thing
that's driving them to do that is that
your brain was created over millions of
years of evolution where food was really
hard to come by and if you came by
something that was calorically dense
that you were going to go after it as
hard as you could remove the brakes as
much as possible overeat over consume
and that food is it's not a calorie as a
calorie food is signaling molecules or
food are signaling molecules whichever
and so they're going to tell your body
to do certain things and the things that
you're prone to overeating because they
were so rare are typically things that
make you put on fat and that are going
to spike your glucose which then causes
a huge dump of insulin which then has a
whole host of problems so it's like
whenever like if I had you have 30
seconds Tom you have to like tell your
younger self or you have to impact
somebody I'd be like stop eating sugar
get a lot of sleep
um and believe that you can get better
which will set that aside for now but
it's like are we close like if we really
had to dumb this down or is it no no
like there's just something else
entirely that is the root of self-harm I
like your articulation it seems like you
identified a version of yourself or
someone else that you identify with I
did the same thing with me where I said
I'm a whole bunch of different kinds of
Brians I'm 6 a.m Brian when I wake up
I'm excited about the day I'm 7 P.M
Brian when I'm stressed out I'm out of
energy and I just want to relax and do
nothing and maybe have some food I
shouldn't be eating there's different
versions of ourselves and in these
different versions We behave different
ways yeah so in my case it was 7 P.M
Brian that was the disaster that he
would overeat eat the wrong kind of
stuff that I wouldn't be able to sleep
and I felt awful the next day it's like
it helped for me to think about this
um
we think of ourselves as the most
intelligent species on this planet yet
we commit we we have behaviors that
accelerate disease and aging and misery
and Cloud our minds and they dampen our
conscious experience
yet even though we do these things we've
normalized it to make it okay where we
celebrate it we encourage it if it's a
social Norm that's challenged we try to
ostracize a person or make them feel
like they're out of Step
and if we can muster up the greatest
sobriety possible about this
it's a little insane we commit
self-destructive Behavior I agree
so do you feel I feel like the battle
line is very clear it's you versus your
evolutionary impulses
is that how you read it or is there
something else going on I think it's
you're certainly correct that there's
probably a lot that has to do with where
we've been as a species a lot of social
norms where it's okay
to do the things you were talking about
eat a tremendous amount of sugar or to
drink excessively or to stay up and not
prioritize sleep or any number of things
what do you think about weed that's like
the most socially acceptable thing in
like in the world right now it's crazy
you want to talk about celebrating
self-destructive Behavior people talk
about it like it's the coolest [__] ever
and I won't say that I haven't done it
but I will say that the times I have
done it I wasn't like I'm so [__]
cool I was like this is a trade-off and
I am diminishing
future potential for today pleasure
so when you think about it's interesting
there's there's a nested idea inside
your mind I've watched enough of your
content that I think I have a read on it
um but before we get to the very complex
because people may not know for
everybody watching right now that you
also own a company called kernel which
is trying to I'm going to use words that
you haven't used but effectively read
and write in the language of Neurology
I'm not sure how you would phrase that
but to be able to see how we think so
that we can also
right
in the brain God I'm really reaching now
but that feels like directionally where
you're headed it's well said
nice okay so this is really interesting
okay so going back one one gigantic idea
at a time here so sticking with the
blueprint the protocol for change we
have these evolutionary impulses they
lead us to do really dumb things that
has created a society where we now
celebrate behavior that is very fraught
in terms of being self-destructive
certainly from an aging perspective and
also probably from just a mental health
how do you feel about yourself
perspective
so taking the things you've already
talked about
um okay so there's multiple Brians
there's multiple all of us Jordan
Peterson was the first person I heard
talk about this about you have entire
personalities around when you're hungry
when you're tired when you're
intoxicated if you have addictive
personality like it becomes a a whole
set of behaviors
and I think that's really interesting so
you have all these Brians you had one
Brian 7pm Brian that was causing a lot
of self-harm for all the other Brians
you are hyper logical so despite having
these human foibles you were able to
override that with some logic and go in
and say I'm going to remove that from
the equation and I'm going to use data
and I'm going how many organs are in the
body by the way 78 okay it depends on
how you classify them but that's already
fascinating okay so you're the only
person I've ever heard talk about I'm
gonna read data from all 78 organs I
didn't think we had that many so I was
already a little startled uh but I'm
going to read the data from these 78
organs and that's going to tell me what
Behavior I
God would you say can and can't do
ought and ought not to do like what word
do you use there it's a beautiful
question and it's at the heart of all of
this so I love how you framed out
the collection of ideas if we put this
then even a broader basket what I really
think is interesting for all of us to
ponder is we zoom out on planet Earth
and we say what is really going on let's
just remove all the noise we can it's
quiet the room as much as possible
what is really happening
and it could be the rise of
computational intelligence we call it AI
it's this new form of information and
knowledge and
creativity and all the things and we're
giving birth to it so there's this
question as this new form of
intelligence emerges in the world
what does that mean for us what does it
mean for all things
and in contemplating this
it might be wise for us to ask what
should we aspire to as a species
how do we get ourselves pointed in the
right direction
and so blueprint is not it may seem
about health and wellness and diet and
food is really not it's my best
guess
at the ideal way for all of us to
prepare ourselves
to walk into this future and that starts
with
I guess what I call Goal alignment so if
I think about myself as a 78 organ
system before it was balkanized and at
war with itself
so I committed these self-destructive
behaviors well in my mind wanted a pizza
party and drinks my kidney wasn't asking
for that and my you know my liver wasn't
and all my my DNA methylation wasn't and
so there was a war within me going on
this misalignment and I had to figure
out how could I achieve world peace
inside of me and that was when you let
these organs speak and everyone can say
I want this in an ideal State and then
you help the reconciliation process
this mirrors what we're doing with
planet Earth we treat the Earth
as we treat our bodies it's the same
relationship
and if we want to think about how could
we potentially cooperate on a global
scale how could we potentially imagine
ourselves walking into this future with
computational intelligence
it starts with our ability to align
ourselves in these interesting ways and
for me it was removing my mind which was
the cause of self-destructive Behavior
enabling a system to take care of me
this is this is the fundamental question
I wanted to propose if I could build a
system that could better care for me
than I'm able but I say yes to it and I
did
now there's all kinds of ways you can
slice that up because a lot of people
will say well does that mean you can no
longer have your pasta with friends does
that mean you can no longer and there's
a very long list of things that they say
I'm familiar with this I perceive these
things that cause me joy if I can't have
these things I don't know why I would
exist so it's just a knee-jerk reaction
it's
it's temporary and people work their way
around it but this is really the
fundamental question we're all thinking
about and to me
it's worth our attention uh it
definitely we are in a situation
where we would benefit by ruminating
that we are in a special moment of time
and we probably don't want to be caught
uh being behind
okay so caught being behind would look
something like we're trying to create
artificial intelligence and we really as
we're recording this AI is at the elbow
of the exponential curve and people are
freaking out in good and bad ways
because of how rapidly it's happening
now and this is I this is certainly the
first time where I've really been
consciously paying attention to
something where I see the elbow happen
and it is there's it breaks the
prediction machine that is the brain and
that's unnerving yes now I'm optimistic
about it but you're on to something here
which is really fascinating which and
I've heard you say this before
um
people talk about for AI to work we have
to get goal alignment between humans and
AI so the AI doesn't run into the paper
clip problem where it's like oh sorry
bro but your atoms would be way better
as paper clips and so I'm just gonna you
know destroy you to get at those atoms
so I can make more paper clips and you
said goal alignment with AI we don't
even have goal alignment with ourselves
that's right
okay let alone between each other right
yeah which if you've been in a marriage
you know immediately like there's a lot
of goal alignment that goes along there
that you're going to have to constantly
be working on which is utterly
fascinating okay so you have made
um
oh I'm gonna say it in a provocative way
take it apart as you see fit you have
made
a deity of data
and I think inside of all of us there is
a god-shaped hole
it has not played out as a religion in
my life not since I was a teenager
I don't know I know that you used you
were brought up deeply religious whether
I don't know if that Echo does an adult
or not but
does that sound right or am I missing
something
I would use an example a few years ago I
was in the Middle East with a country
leader and he offered up his country's
20 30 plans
and this was in 2017 I believe and I
said that's fascinating that you would
be planning 13 years in advance at the
time I was deeply involved in my Venture
investing in synthetic biology and
nanotech computational Therapeutics so I
knew From The Trenches what was going on
in those worlds from machine learning
and AI through the biology and and I
said how do you think you can possibly
plan that far in advance and he said
like how would you think about it just
as a playful gesture and I said okay
let's imagine let's play a game we have
two robot robots and the goal is to get
the robot to the furthest Sand Dune on
the horizon we can barely see it we can
do one of two things one is we can take
a topographical map of the sand dunes
program the map into the robot and say
go robot to that sand dune now we know
what's going to happen in a few minutes
it's going to be stuck in the sand
because the stands are going to shift
the map is going to change
the other thing we do is we say Okay
robot we're going to give you the tools
to navigate the sand no matter what
happens so as the landscape changes as
we know it will it navigates its way to
these endpoints and so all you have to
do is point in a general direction and
that's really what this entire thing is
with blueprint is I've basically just
said my body is a system with tools to
navigate Terrain
as it moves along so measurement science
protocol now the science is going to get
better the measurement is going to get
better and it just improves again and
again and again but my body is not
subject to the same problems of
self-destructive Behavior where I can't
move forward I've tried to put myself my
body in a position where it can have
compounded gains so as technology
improves
my body improves at the same rate of the
technology and in this case it's slowing
my rate of aging and reversing the Aging
has happened now there may be chances
where we start talking about enhancement
where we build Technologies in society
but if we start thinking about ourselves
that we really care to go together to
this distant point on the horizon we
want systems that allow us to move
through changing terrain what we don't
want are these maps that assume certain
things and so this is the the zeroth
principle thinking so when you say a god
of data I would say uh to me this is a
philosophy of zeroism
you have to tell people what that means
so the idea is
Talent hits the target that no one else
can
genius hits the target no one can see
Talent is first principle thinking so
you survey the world you identify
everything you can know in a given time
frame and you just you know those basic
things you make decisions
zeroth principle thinking you can't even
see the Target and so this is like
Einstein's special Theory relativity
where he gave birth to something that
already existed but just changes
everything or when alphago played Lisa
doll in alphago it played moves in the
game of Go
that could have been played by humans
but no human did and so humans saw these
moves it broke their brains and they
said it's as if an intelligence From
Another Dimension were playing a game of
Go
so first principle uh thinking is genius
it's a talent that no one else can see
and so that the
the hypothesis is
with the emergence of computational
intelligence
it introduces zeroth principle
breakthroughs at a rate faster than
humans have it changes the landscape
more and faster than we have been so
we're going to enter into a zeroth
principle world where the lamp is going
to change faster and faster in ways we
don't anticipate it's going to surprise
us continually in the same way at least
at all was stunned with alphago's play
we're going to feel the same way and so
the the idea for this is let's
try to zoom out on planet Earth look at
the situation we're in of what's really
going on
let's adopt systems of evolving
ourselves and improving ourselves so we
can roll with all these changes no
matter how the terrain shifts and we can
move into this future of zeroth
principle we don't know what it's going
to be we can't imagine it it's beyond
our own imagination it's it's a
and so it's really an i a an effort to
say we can recognize the special moment
we're in
we can create systems where everyone
wins
and we can shed
the characteristics of ourselves that no
longer service like self-destructive
behaviors that's really what I'm trying
to do the entirety so it it's about the
future of human existence ironically or
humorously Begins by eating broccoli it
and by letting your organs run the
system versus your mind the truth is
hitting your career goals is not easy
you have to be willing to go the extra
mile to stand out and do hard things
better than anybody else but there are
10 steps I want to take you through that
will 100x your efficiency so you can
crush your goals and get back more time
into your day you'll not only get
control of your time you'll learn how to
use that momentum to take on your next
big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description right my friend back to
today's episode
okay I think there's more to talk about
with the how you're getting
I think you're getting compliance in
yourself because you believe so much in
the data's ability to lead you to maybe
it's zero principle thinking where we're
able to completely come up with
something that we otherwise would not
have but before we get lost in that far
more philosophical conversation I'll
bring us back to the actual protocol
itself so you've brought a bunch of food
this is stuff I assume you eat on a
daily basis I've heard you say you
basically eat the same thing every day
so pull me down into what the data is
showing so we have 78 organs they're all
saying they want something do they want
the same thing like is there one
protocol that matches everything or is
it like we're doing 78 different things
every day hoping that it comes together
somehow yeah this is
yeah so my diet every day is uh roughly
2 000 calories
so it's a 25
calorie reduction of what I would
normally consume so I'm on a caloric
efficient diet so you're hungry all the
time I'm hungry all the time in fact let
me ask you really fast before we get
into this does your life suck
I've never been happier
or more fulfilled or more energized I've
never ever been in a better state in my
entire life even though you're hungry
all the time yes interesting okay so
we'll get into that after you show me
what you're going to eat I wouldn't
trade my life for anything right now wow
it has never been better that's
incredible sleep diet
okay yeah steering by the data kicked
off by our 78 organs basically this is
2000 calories every calorie has to fight
for its life to exist because it's such
a small budget and my body needs to have
all the nutrients it needs to be ideal
so so the objective was how do you
create a perfect diet
and so for breakfast I eat this dish uh
called super veggie which is black
lentils broccoli cauliflower mushrooms
garlic and you named it super veggies
yeah I did okay yeah so I ate 70 pounds
of vegetables a month oh my God
Jesus okay that's a lot uh an hour later
two hours later I eat nutty pudding so
you don't eat it all at once no I used
to do one meal a day my body fat went
down to three percent whoa a bit too
long how low were your calories same two
thousand just having it all in in a
single window it had the effect of
dropping my body that's competition
that's like bodybuilding up on stage
let's go I'm a step away from dying I
mean three percent that's insane man I
mean I'm 5.1 now so I thought you were
trying to bump it up uh yeah so three
three's too low sorry I haven't heard in
an interview somebody put the words in
your mouth so I have to be more careful
with that that you were trying to go up
to like six and a half or seven percent
I mean I've been there I'm five right
now so it kind of hovers my wow five to
six range okay and that's comfortable
you're hungry but it's comfortable yeah
it's the five percent is enough
subcutaneous fat because your heart
needs fat you need fat in your body and
so we're comfortable with five-ish
percent okay so one meal a day it was
two you're getting too lean which is
already interesting from a fat loss
perspective intermittent fasting is
doing its job
so how much do you spread this out sorry
six hours total window total window of
time is six hours starting first meal is
what time five six a.m a.m whoa so you
get up and eat or do you get up crazy
early I get up and I drink this this guy
guy here so like I'm wiping the sleep
out of my eyes and I interesting yeah so
I have a an Unwritten rule that I don't
eat so I wake up usually four to five
A.M
I don't eat until roughly 9 A.M and I
eat all of my food in a pretty narrow
window five to six hours
[Music]
um
two meals only
and but I've always thought that I
needed to wake up work out fast did all
of that but not true
because you're way leaner than I am okay
so on these questions my experience has
been I trained as a pilot I got my
license as a pilot in multiple airplanes
even though I'm a competent pilot I'm
Never As Good As a professional pilot
[Music]
they do it every day they think about it
day in day out they just have higher
levels of skill than when I jump in and
jump out
the same is true with blueprint this
team I have led by Dr Oliver zollman
this is all they do they're consumed by
it night and day when they don't have
anything to think about they're thinking
about this
and even among the most elite experts in
health and wellness they disagree with
each other you know this like there is
absolutely no agreement on just about
anything
and so
the it's important uh as a system that a
team run in a way that has some way to
try to tease out signal from noise and
then do something and see if it works we
don't know all the answers and that's
why we're testing these things we're
this is why I'm doing all this is we're
trying to punch through these open-ended
questions and debates that never ever
resolve
it's never ending debate and so in these
cases of of your question of is it
optimal to eat before you exercise or
after you exercise
I don't know the specifics but I'm sure
you could open it up and it would be an
endless debate among experts on the
ideal status of doing things yeah and so
we we just don't get involved in those
arguments because uh there's limiting
there's some returns in doing that and
so we've set up a system of evidence of
analysis of protocol of measurements
does that mean you had to agree on what
are the optimal State for the 78 organs
that we're measuring you had to have an
ideal in mind to be able to steer
towards it so at some point either
you're saying that
um we we did get a group of people to
agree on these things or this is where
our hypothesis lies yeah and for people
that aren't super familiar with the
scientific method so hypothesis
basically a best guess a theory is
something that has proven to work even
though it may not be ground level truth
yet
so
is this your hypothesis is this a
working Theory like where where are we
at how did you get consensus there
I think the data speaks for itself so
you look at the highlights of what we've
done for two years so one my my speed of
Aging using
an epigenetic DNA methylation clock okay
so looking at what exactly so anybody
that's followed me for a while they've
heard methylation talk before so you can
get kind of nerdy and as long as I can
track it we're in good shape if we're
looking at these biological expression
patterns in our body that have some
relationship to aging uh these aging
clocks are not yet gold standard they're
they're silver standard is there a gold
standard or we're just working not not
on not like phenotypic markers okay so a
methylation is still still silver
standard but if you look at the entirety
of my data so you say uh one is uh last
year I set a world record in reducing my
epigenetic age 5.1 years and seven
months using using six clocks not one
six I didn't cherry pick a clock so
let's just say okay I put you in the
clocks are up and are up and coming fine
we'll take out the grain of salt second
my speed of Aging so the pace in which
my body ages is 0.76 what do you look at
for the DNA methylation okay this is
based upon a a multi-decade longitudinal
study based out of New Zealand okay it's
called the Newton I'm going to tell
people what DNA methylation actually is
I'll probably get it a little wrong and
correct me where I do so DNA methylation
you have these little things like
certains is that what's running around
on the DNA I can never remember but
there are little things that run around
the DNA they're probably a protein and
they are marking the DNA saying this is
a liver cell this is a brain cell this
is an eye cell and thusly you should
only read these sections so read here
stop reading here
and every time a cell gets damaged it
has to go in and like remark it and say
okay this is the part to read and not
read and aging is effectively the D
differentiation of cells your eye cell
begins to forget that it's just an eye
your liver cell begins to forget that
it's just the liver so on and so forth
and so it stops doing its things well
because the things reading the DNA are
basically being told to read the wrong
parts of the DNA and so it starts to
basically get confused and that is aging
yeah and I'd say yes and if a detective
when in your body and it's looking at a
crime scene they might find some details
in how your body's expressing itself in
these data imagination patterns
interesting so there's something being
revealed in the patterns that you
methylate your exactly you look at these
patterns and it's just like it's like a
biological age versus chronological age
so there's a type of malfunction in the
methylation that we can see there's yeah
there's patterns
that that manifest themselves in the
body so we know that just at a basic
concept we know roughly what uh we know
how a 15 year old's heart should look
like with the characteristics of its
functionality and also it's anatomical
we know what an 80 year old person's
heart how it functions and what it looks
like they're very different Hearts
you're not going to confuse a 15 year
old and an 80 year old heart if looking
at an MRI or even looking at it in
tissue right and so there's you can
biologically age and so DNA methylation
is to say we can identify patterns
that reveal and so this is what they're
sorting in the science it's fine but
what I may be trying to get in a quick
summary is I have over 50 perfect
uh biological markers and their Optical
clinical outcome range so that's like my
cholesterol and you know the
triglycerides like all the usual things
people talk about I have a hundred
biomarkers that are less than my
chronological age I set a world record
for reversing my my epigenetic age my
speed of Aging uh which is currently
0.76 I'm number one
out of 1750 people that have been
measuring their speed of Aging over
several years
for total reduction of age and so so for
every calendar year
you age .76 of a calendar so that
jokingly I say I get October November
December for free you know but like
let's just say uh let's discount all my
data and say okay we think that the
science is like
70 correct in that area
it's still a pretty compelling
data set to suggest that what I'm doing
may be interesting and it may be in the
right direction so it's not this is not
to state that we've figured everything
out that everything's perfect that we
know all things it's meant just to put
forward all the data we have and say
pretty interesting if you build this
system measurement evidence protocol
then look what it's doing and that's
what really we're trying to do and so
step by step and of course everyone's
going to look at this and they'll nip at
it from One Direction or another
wonderful like that's the process that's
science that's how we're going to
improve but by open sourceness and
sharing with everybody others can
implement it they can improve it they
can generate their own data so it's
really meant to try to punch through
the game we're playing is not this is
not the game the game we're playing is
the future of the human race that's so
interesting you're taking us back to the
philosophical side we're gonna get first
to the broccoli and the mushrooms and
all that stuff but it really is
interesting it was one of the notes that
I took when I was doing the research is
that you're really coming at this from
from uh I'll boil it down to Ott versus
can
and
in my language and I don't know that
everybody would agree with this but in
my language art is a moral statement we
ought to be doing things in this way and
you introduced me to an interesting idea
when we first met and you were talking
about you talked about data and the data
that all of us kick off from behavioral
to biological in a way that I'd never
contemplated before and it seemed too
big of a problem to solve at that time
but I haven't stopped thinking about
that and as somebody so we're building
in the metaverse and now I think a lot
about whoa I'm going to be influencing
the way that people think about life
um that if Jordan Peterson is right and
it brings out like psychopathy and that
the way the algorithms work they tend to
like reward people with dark Triad
Tendencies so I'm like wow we really
have to be thoughtful about this so
bringing that back to what you're
talking about now it's like
okay if we're building Ai and you've
talked about the computational and
distribution cost of intelligence is
going to zero so basically now we all
have a genius in our pocket that can
take us from it doesn't exist to
existing with these huge breakthrough
insights
okay well now all of a sudden we really
have to get alignment and all of that
alignment starts with the food that's
sitting on this table here which is so
that rings so true to me in terms of
what I know about the like just getting
people to understand I don't want to
talk about diet I don't want to talk
about exercise but all these cool things
that I do want to talk to you about I
can't get you there until we talk about
this yes
with that we have broccoli we have uh
cauliflower which I hate so you're gonna
have to make me a Believer and mushrooms
which I I am so freaked out by mushrooms
but I learned a lesson
so I had real food trauma as a kitten
and
it's it's a fascinating thing my mother
and I see my childhood very differently
so I had a lot of food trauma uh eating
Rice-A-Roni and like really basic
horrible things as a kid over and over
and over just that was how I grew up
and when I got older I my whole thing
was no one will ever get me to eat
something I don't want to eat again ever
ever ever I end up marrying a Greek girl
her family's constantly offering me all
this weird food I do not want to eat it
and but I didn't want to offend my
father-in-law and then we finally got to
the point he would always offer me two
things there there's this weird cheese
that they have called halloumi cheese
they're cypriot now halloumi cheese if
you grew up like I grew up with American
cheese it melts cheddar cheese melts
swiss cheese melt those are the only
cheeses I was ever introduced to
halloumi doesn't melt you can put it on
open flame and it doesn't melt it'll
burn but it doesn't melt and so I was
like I'm never going to eat something
that a cheese that doesn't melt that's
too weird and so anyway one day he's
always offering me two things so I can
always take the other thing and not try
this freakish cheese and one day still
not wanting to offend my father-in-law
he only offers me halloumi and I'm like
oh this is a test
so I'm like damn it I have to eat this
cheese otherwise I'm gonna offend my
father-in-law and I eat it and it was
like fireworks went off in my mouth it
was so delicious and I was like I have
missed out I think it had been I'd known
him for four years and I was like I had
missed out on four years of eating this
incredible cheese because I was scared
so I was like if somebody offers me food
sincerely they're not trying to mess
with me if they're offering me food
sincerely I will try it every time
I can only imagine you were offering me
this sincerely so I'm going to give it a
shot all right so mushrooms broccoli
quinoa what was the other thing in there
black lentils lentils
all right where do we start well I guess
it is a question do you prefer to eat
your sweets before Savory or savory
before Oh Savory before sweet okay so I
would I would probably dip into the
Super veggie or some broccoli all right
let's see what we got here
is there a particular like
broccoli mushroom cauliflower all in one
bite kind of thing you know just cooked
this is softer than I thought it was
yeah it's all steamed so for FODMAP to
avoid getting indigestion you know
making it comfortable for your
microbiome everything's steamed nice
it's important to take seven to eight
minutes
and then oh God the mushroom so freak
out yeah yeah I'm a talk here yeah
all right here we go let's do it all
right
other than the texture mushrooms which
I'm super sketched out by tastes great
great what are you putting on it um is
it literally just
Steam and the natural thing or is there
eye sauces I could add no sauces uh
sometimes I'll sprinkle with no salt
which is potassium chloride so it's a
replacement for sodium but no just I
puree mine so it's like a veggie hummus
why puree it uh because the volume I eat
it's uh almost uh 900 mL uh mL of volume
it's very large and so I have a lot
going on in life and to eat that much
vegetables every day purees
what do you chew
masticate uh all these other my third
meal of the day uh nutty pudding in the
berries and so we're about putting again
but the berries are whole yep and in a
third Mills hole Yeah so the third Mill
is vegetables
um nuts Berry so sweet potato or
that was good again the the mushroom I'm
a little sketched out by why why
broccoli why cauliflower this diet is
not the only way to win so I'm vegan by
choice not by necessity so this is not
to say that someone couldn't achieve
similar or better results than mine
doing other things interesting totally
fine we need to talk about mtor so uh
we're back to Ott now so you're eating
this way because you believe we all
ought to it uh I'm eating this because
of the concept of what Alfred North
White had said
civilization advances by the number of
important operations it can automate
without the person thinking about it
and if I contemplate
what are the most majestic games my
conscious mind could play
that's a question and a half
and let's just for a moment try to
create some separation with everything
we hold near and dear right now
and let's just open ourselves up and say
what are the most majestic things we
could experience
there's of course a little band of what
we could see and think about and imagine
and be creative and then there's this
gigantic space of unknown of surprise
and when I think about that as the
potential future I'm motivated to spend
my time energies doing that
and so
eating this food is among the most
delightful experiences of my entire day
I love every second of it
I also appreciate it that it is now
solved in my life I don't spend 40 of my
day thinking about what I'm going to eat
or trying to order what I'm going to eat
or trying to it's all just built into a
system so I can have my mind pointed in
somewhere else
so the goal here is not that everyone in
society creates their own version of
blueprint the idea here is that Society
creates blueprint as the norm it is
unfair to the individual
that they're set out in society and they
have to navigate on a daily basis
McDonald's
and Snickers and Tick Tock and
everything else it is unfair and this
goes back to your point on data if
you're when you're you are broadcasting
data
the capitalistic system is taking this
and then using it against you so you
commit greater self-destructive
behaviors
and then we celebrate it and then we
call people weird when they don't
participate in it the whole system is
rigged against us meanwhile
we worship our technology
we are willing to sacrifice ourselves
for technology we're Martyrs for
technological progress yet we have
almost
we have a minuscule amount of attention
focused on improving ourselves and it
should be the exact opposite the new
Apple keynote should be the new
blueprint we should be able to Showcase
human advancement
in ways that are stunning and exciting
to get everyone on this movement of how
do we prove ourselves individually
uncollectively and if we look at
ourselves in 10 20 30 40 years we might
look back and say that was obvious like
why did we
sacrifice ourselves for this
technological advancement why did we
just grind ourselves Drive ourselves
into the ground why do we encourage each
other to do all these self-destructive
things why do we allow it to happen to
ourselves we might consider ourselves to
be insane
and just a snap of sobriety would say of
course like why wouldn't we move forward
in this fashion and that's what this is
meant to do is we naturally grab it
towards gravity towards things that
improve our lives
and if we could have systems that help
us do that you know could we say yes to
it in a way that it doesn't threaten our
being it doesn't threaten our media
making doesn't threaten our our
identities we say cool because we really
want to play bigger games than existence
all right that's super interesting and
we will certainly continue uh balancing
this Razor's Edge of practicality and
philosophy which I actually really do
find interesting I want to understand so
you've answered the question why you eat
veggies over meat so I get that I and I
think it'll be important for us to go
into the N of one
um idea but right now I want to talk
about you have you said every calorie
has to fight for its survival in terms
of the right to be consumed by you
I'm very curious
I'm going to ask one question before we
we go on with this which is
I think of nutrition as so n of one if
for no other reason than your microbiome
but nutrition is so n of one that will
never get to 100 one blueprint for
everybody but I also think throwing up
your hands and saying well it's hopeless
because it's all in one is also a
mistake so I'm gonna guess that 85
percent of the blueprint will be the
same for everybody and then there's
going to be 15 new ones but I'm going to
set aside the 15 new ones but my
question is do you agree like is it 80
is it four percent is going to be
Universal like how much of this is going
to be blueprint for everybody and how
much is going to be individualized those
that data will naturally emerge over
time do you have a gut instinct though I
wouldn't dare to guess really
interesting I'm so I think that it I
think everybody
ought to be willing to say this is how I
think about the problem so I always find
myself spouting off about things I'm I
know that I will definitely change my
mind like I I will 100 follow the data
but I need organizing principles okay
anyway so your organizing principle
you're not sure so going back to this
bowl here
um your 78 organs are competing every
calorie has to like justify its
existence but this bowl has raised its
hand in the data and said for all of the
78 I'm one of the best things that you
could do you've already been clear maybe
there's a meat protocol or whatever that
will do the same thing or maybe it's
even better but the data has said and
your Elf like appearance backs it up uh
that this is effective but I don't yet
understand why so what what is hiding
not hiding what is the the matrices of
these items that the 78 organs are like
yes please yeah I mean for example if
you uh if my 17 year old and I
both do our blood panel so we're looking
at liver enzymes and we're looking at
all of our basic blood panel
were nearly indistinguishable it would
be almost it's almost impossible to tell
the difference between his and mine
and that's what this food has produced
but why isn't this box showing collard
greens it could you know it could be
it's just that the wisiness tomatoes I'm
now picking night shades on purpose why
isn't this tomatoes and eggplant and
peppers as a team uh we look at the
evidence we try to find gold standard
evidence so
um with a random control trial and we
say you know blank has shown to do blank
in this organ or this biological process
and that's what the result is here so
broccoli cauliflower mushrooms and
lentils get the blood panels that we
want
and you've tried how many things have
you tried a lot yeah they have for me
they have for a lot of people around me
and so again it's
um
your statement is is you know you're
directionally correct that for some
percent of people
this will work for another percent it
won't work and how much of a difference
we don't know and so the blueprint is
less about the exact things and more
about the system of measurement evidence
protocol and I assume because that that
system so you put out a video
so I know a little bit about this you
put out a video where it's like here are
all the crazy things that we do it's so
overwhelming that even somebody with
like my identity is I'm one big
throbbing uh discipline molecule I don't
even know how to finish that statement
but like I I am disciplined like
incarnate yeah that that's how I see
myself and when I watched that video I
was like yeah no like it's so complex
like the machines and you spend more in
fact this will sum it up if I don't even
mind the money
it's the time you spend more money on
your body every year than LeBron James
okay let people at home let that one
sink in so this protocol is very robust
and the the Gap I'm trying to bridge is
we keep talking about the protocol like
sort of in The Ether without like really
grounding it but because I've seen the
whole thing it's so complicated I know
we have a bunch of your supplements here
and we need to get into that so I'm I'm
gonna say for now for the sanity of
people watching this
we're going to continue going through
the foods that that we have here and
while there is going to be n of one
variations if you're going to get into
this because I've seen the level of
complexity most people should just eat
what's in the bowl and and I'm gonna
take this sort of on Blind Faith that if
I want to replicate the protocol rather
than me go do all the things you're
doing because I'm not willing to just
being completely honest that I'm just
going to eat this okay that that's
guidance for myself on how to run this
interview okay so uh these are the
things that the data has kicked off for
somebody doing this in a vegan format
Okay so we've got our super veggies
which you smoothie the [__] out of uh
because you don't want to chew the 70
pounds a month I don't mind chewing it
I hummus is among is my favorite food
what do you dip in the hummus though
vegetables okay so we we save some of
our broccoli so our the third meal of
the day could be a hummus I'm just
saying generally speaking hummus is
among my favorite foods got it
super veggie is hummus it's just ground
texture yeah yeah exactly and so a lot
of people look at it and the texture
triggers these associations in their
mind a lot of people Factor right
mushrooms hidden in a hummus would be
far better so it's my sanity it's a lot
of fun for people to poke with a thing
and make funny jokes it's hummus and I
have hummus for breakfast and it's just
chock full of vegetables and so yeah so
that's the uh breakfast I like to in the
morning
so then I also drizzle olive oil on this
and I also put chocolate in it that's a
new that's a recent addition
into the hummus or separately into the
hummus interesting yeah you taste the
chocolate yeah so it's a really weird
combination let's start eating through
this stuff so so you here we've got the
chocolate these are going to be bitter
as hell right they are yeah so because
this is like straight up that's right so
what makes this special what brand is
this we think about everything uh this
chocolate's a good example of a five
level stack of thinking so first
statement is chocolate's good for you
second is dark chocolate is good for you
third is dark chocolate undunched is
good for you fourth is dark chocolate
untouched without heavy metals is good
for you and the fifth is dark chocolate
untouched not heavy metals with the
highest polyphenol count
and so with every one of these things we
want to get to level five on every
single thing and that's what again what
this is is it's had to survive a
tremendous amount of scrutiny to arrive
so that is pure 100 dark chocolate it we
have tested for heavy metals with high
polyphenol count we have several
suppliers we have several supplier if we
work do you not like to talk about the
brands no because we're actually going
to make our own one I was going to say
like literally I was like talk to Brian
about getting into business in food
because it's very hard it's very hard to
find to make a hummus Prime exactly but
the the chocolate you know it it's
delightful to eat and so then you pair
70 pounds of vegetables with 100 dark
chocolate and the same thing with the
olive oil so we run the same criteria of
the absolute highest quality olive oil
and that's breakfast it's the most
nutritionally dense dish I have ever
consumed in my entire life what are some
of the things you've thrown away like uh
we tried asparagus yeah we don't we
don't do asparagus anymore have we are
there any ones that were amiss I mean at
one point I had too many carrots in my
diet
why so I also had to dial back the
carrots but I did it because it was
spiking the life out of my glucose which
I was utterly scandalized by I had no
idea that baby carrots I don't know if
it matters but baby carrots if I eat
them to satiety I will Spike my glucose
over a hundred which is crazy and I live
in the sort of mid to low 80s is that
why you did it or was there something
else so the organs were kicking off bad
data early on we basically we we had
settled in on the the first two dishes
of the day the drink and the two dishes
the chocolate and I'll talk about the
drink yet and then the third dish we had
we identified uh like a hundred plus
vegetables and like basically this huge
number of things and so the person I
worked with we just said randomly choose
from this assortment of vegetables and
Vary it up like give my give me some
diversity of food and so we really you
think that's important well we were just
testing it out like let it be a wild
card and uh so they tried a whole bunch
of different preparations and so in that
it wasn't a systematic approach and so
we just had too much too many carrots
and so that showed up in our in our
measurement and so now you know it was
the carrots I forget the trade the
tracks we had
um but all of our because you've got
some ungodly numbers yeah people on this
like it's so funny that there was this
one time where I take
um iodine iodine you worried about a
nuclear attack no uh just want to take
125 mcgs a day why why and um why iodine
just part of my daily dietary intake
data tells us to take iodine you're
gonna have to come up with a better
answer there's markers for it so at the
time I was doing this uh zinc test where
you have you ever done this where you
put you can test whether you're zinc
deficient or Not by putting this in your
mouth and if you taste the zinc your
zinc deficient if you can't taste
anything you're good on zinc interesting
so I just came primed from that and so
basically you're looking at your body's
reaction to doing it and I thought
that's interesting so I I did the idea
tonight and it tastes really good to me
and I thought does that mean my body's
asking more of it and so I started doing
two drops instead of one just playfully
doing it and then a month later my labs
show up and we're as a team we're
looking at this and they're like wait a
second that result makes no sense and I
had to bashfully confess
I've deviated from the protocol I did
two drops instead of one but any deal
was it a good uh bad deviation really so
even though it tasted I thought the
punchline was going to be if it tastes
good like no of course I should have
known better this is like me going off
and doing something with my mind like
maybe this is a good idea but it's funny
because every I cannot do anything
without it showing up in the data it's
like I have 24 7.
surveillance on my body in all the
measurements we take so whether it's my
wearables or my Imaging or blood draws
it is so comprehensively captured in
every moment with everything I'm doing I
have found every time I do something it
immediately manifests it's not
immediately but it manifests in the data
and the team can teach it out so then
let's get back to the things you're
actually putting in your body so so that
people don't want to punch me because I
can feel that they're going to so we
have our super veggies which we turn
into a hummus we've got the five step uh
Ultra bitter but actually was I've
damaged my palette because I eat clean
uh so to me that was fun uh but the
ultra bitter dark chocolate High
polyphenol no heavy metals so on and so
forth uh looks like we're gonna get to
some sort of berry smoothie yeah we've
got chocolate covered berries I'm
guessing it's the same chocolate melted
looks like maybe some nuts on it uh
extra virgin olive oil any special thing
is a chocolate it's five levels deep
okay for the Purity probably worth going
through the five on that but for first
and then what's the mystery drink here
oh this is for breakfast so this first
here 10 is 50 uh I think it's 54 pills
so in the morning Jesus Christ that's a
lot of pills yeah do we wake up you
greet you drink green giant 54 pills
uh-huh but so so much of what you do
it's like oh the data just tells us to
keep going but how did you pick the 54
pills to start with yeah same process
what what's the first step though
randomly ingest
bizarre things there had to be some
logic so I'm guessing you're working
with a guy that guy is like Oliver
wasn't it Oliver yeah Oliver Walters
Holman Dr Oliver zollman is like take
these 75 pills we narrow it down to 54
giving us the results that we want
something like that yeah he's got some
methodology that's the one part that's
missing from all this is like what's
that first experimental step but since
we don't need that because we're just
going to tell people to eat and take
what you're taking
you have those broken down on your
website yes so we can link to that in
the show notes yes okay everything here
is all on the website everything is
available for everyone at no cost what
is up my friend Tom bilyu here and I
have a big question to ask you how would
you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a 10.
I've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact I will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
all right I've just released a class
from Impact Theory university called how
to build Ironclad discipline that
teaches you the process of building
yourself up in this area so that you can
push yourself to do the the hard things
that greatness is going to require of
you right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work I will see you inside
this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out all right Green
Giant what is Green Giant it is uh
chlorella powder that sounds terrifying
is chlorella something that grows so it
has spermidine is that something that
grows like I've heard those names but
honestly is there a spermidine plant uh
spermudines in a lot of foods mushrooms
okay so it's a it's a ingredient it's
just that it's a 13.5 milligrams then
there's amino acids it smells like cat
food Bryant it tastes good though it's
delicious wow that's not based on the
smell like I'm gonna hate this thing
everyone uh it really does smell like
cat food but it doesn't taste like not
that I know what Cafe tastes like but it
doesn't taste like I expect it from the
smell
has an aftertaste of bubble gum that's
unexpected I rarely experience anyone
who doesn't eat this food with me and
arrive at the same place this is really
nice it is the whole thing is very nice
I wasn't expecting that okay I'm gonna
give you I'm gonna confess to something
yeah I burped a few minutes ago and
could taste the the master veggie and I
was like that was nice
like even the burp was nice yeah
so I tried going vegetarian at one point
and I did not like it at all and I was
always like that's a lie I tried going
way more vegetables let me be very
careful in my words so I am now call it
80 of my calories come from meat 20 from
vegetables I tried to reverse it and do
20 for meat and 80 from vegetables I
didn't feel good
and I was always like well
I just didn't do it intelligently I
wasn't following a protocol I was like
what vegetables do I happen to have in
my refrigerator start eating a lot of
those
um I'll I would be very interested to
try this exact protocol and see how we
do but will there be a transition period
where I'm like
um crazy diarrhea because my microbiome
isn't ready for this like is there is
there a transition to go through or is
it like wake up tomorrow and just start
going this person's different in terms
of the transition period the two your
point is correct though that the reason
why I take 100 pills to a pill today is
If you
if the budget is 2 000 calories a day
and the objective is perfect nutrition
and it's vegan
then this is what keeps my body in that
perfect State and so this is why a lot
of people who do try to go vegan or do
cold or constriction fail is because
they're they're bodies missing critical
important pieces of nutrition
and so this basically is addressing this
is what I did is I put myself on this I
call this my autonomous self but I said
2 000 calories a day an hour of exercise
a day it's vegan and I just let my body
run so look the muscle mass body fat I
measure all these things get ultrasound
I'm doing full body ultrasound looking
attendance ligaments muscle I measure I
measure everything full body MRI of fat
of liver and then we say how is this
doing and it's working like it basically
has tuned my body to near perfect health
so this is the thing it's this is so I
didn't expect that you're on your
um your longevity Arc as the kids would
say I didn't see this coming from our
last interview man this is so
interesting and if you didn't look like
an elf I don't know if I would believe
in all of it
but given that you do like I'm over here
how fast can I eat this stuff uh okay so
walk me through berries and this is
going to be your favorite pudding this
will be your favorite dish what is the
the puffy stuff oh that's pea protein
yeah you might want to mix it up a
little bit otherwise you might it might
get caught your yes this is nuts
macadamia nuts walnuts flaxseed
sunflower leichon pomegranate seeds
and most people think it tastes like a
dessert
yeah there's no thinking it does taste
like a dessert yeah but
you know it's not trick people it's not
Cold Stone ice cream but it is tasty I'm
repulsed by Cold Stone ice cream you
take that back you take that back right
now because the ice cream is delicious
uh is that because you so
Tom Hanks once said when he was losing
all the weight for Castaway he said it
got to the point where I didn't want to
eat a chocolate cake you didn't have to
tell me he was like it just the idea was
disgusting yeah I've never gotten there
yeah so I the other day someone had a
damn this is good Ryan they had a bag of
something like some
chip or something and uh I grabbed one
and I put it in my mouth and it just
I I could taste the chemicals yeah it
was almost like eating gasoline now for
people in the comments saying everything
is chemicals yes you are correct but
there are some things that taste like
chemicals yeah I know exactly what you
mean by that yeah it was like gasoline
yeah this is really nice man
you're making me a Believer over here
yeah and so you put it all together and
I mean the people that have been on this
who created these recipes we did as a
team wow yeah so we're just constantly
working on it it's again people there's
are there bananas in this no really yeah
I could have passed a lie detector that
there are bananas in here yeah yep
there's some banana flavor in the pea
protein
but I would I would imagine Tom if you
did this and you had some duration of
time on this Jesus that you would
probably say you can't imagine life not
doing it you've you've you well after
eating you feel that good
I I think I have to do this
like I have to try this
to do to do our time together Justice
this is so tasty
if if that can be made into a hummus
because the mushrooms freak me out now
be honest yeah
but
it tasted great
this is freaky all right and we still
have more to go and then if you want to
be wild I want to be wild you know like
this is
so same dark chocolate uh with a few
berries and so it just kind of yeah
let's see how we do here
foreign
make everything taste good
that's nice man
it's really nice and you eat do you eat
a plate like is this part of the product
on a daily basis uh I serve these up to
friends when we do our blueprint uh
brunches
wow now do you have anybody doing the
blueprint on meat my son does
interesting he has he is identical in
everything except for he has chicken
with his super veggie and his marker is
going in the right direction
now
how much is youth uh get out of jail
free card though like ah there are
people that really mess themselves up so
I imagine you'd be able to see it
so just to turn that into a full
question so uh you would be able to see
if you're monitoring your son it's not
like well he's 17 and therefore
everything is going to look great if he
were doing things that were off you'd be
able to pick it up right away that's
right okay
very interesting man yeah and he's our
prototype you know every time we're
doing a new measurement protocol
he is willing he's excited to be
involved so we have this um I measure I
look at my skin and I'm trying to
basically have
skin like an 18 year old yeah and so we
have this machine that does
multi-spectral Imaging gives us you know
10 different dimensions of skin and I
he'll do the measurement I'll do the
measurement we'll compare our results
you know and he'll age out at 17 like he
is and so I always have a biological
comparison it's just fun we do it it's a
fun family activity
it's humorous uh it's just Friday at the
Johnson yeah I mean for example like I
always try to teach my kids to wear
sunscreen and it was always like yeah
why bad but sunscreen isn't that like
you're you're absorbing toxic chemicals
into the biggest organ in your body yeah
yeah like they would just like leave
isn't that true I mean I'm phobic of
sunscreen I never wear sunscreen so I
get in the sun I try to be thoughtful I
know that I can't just take infinite
amounts of sun but I try to have a base
tan at all times it was the one thing so
looking at a lot of the footage that
you've done your thighs bro are white
like scary white and don't we I mean
vitamin D getting Sun I'm super sketched
out by the idea of just
um isolating compounds and doing
everything through supplementation and
vitamin d i to your point there's a lot
of stuff we don't know yet and as more
and more people start reading all their
data things are going to Spring forth
from the data and I have a feeling that
one of the answers is going to be
everything you can get naturally you
should get naturally so if you can eat
it like it would be far better my
hypothesis goes that it would be far
better to eat things that contain all
the things that you're supplementing
than it is to supplement vitamin D being
the one again I'm a lay person I'm not a
scientist I'm not tracking this is just
a hypothesis I have which again is only
my best guess but that vitamin D you
want Sun impacting your skin is my gut
instinct you're saying no
I'm not saying no I'm saying that the
way we approach skin our objective is to
get my entire body to have
the biological characteristics of my 17
year old yep
so that includes all the characteristics
and so we do full body treatment
and we do a sufficient number of
treatments for these treatments I need
to be out of the Sun for certain
durations of time
and so really it's an optimization of
we're doing treatments I avoid the sun
because we're doing these treatments on
an ongoing basis and we measure
everything we use multi-spectral Imaging
we measure it with all these different
instruments and so we have a protocol of
trying to do this and the idea of you
know should you get sun or not sun and
for how long and under what
circumstances that's again an example of
it explodes into Infinite complexity and
if we actually take this and we look at
the evidence I'm sure we could come up
with some cohesive answer but it's the
kind of thing that that to me gets in
the way of the bigger picture like if
you people get so fixated on this one
thing of like how much time should you
be in the Sun
and then they spend all their time doing
that and then commit self-destructive
behavior and don't eat anything good for
themselves and it's just it's missing
this bigger picture and so
it'd be wonderful to solve that debate
once and for all for the evening Tire of
all of humanity there's also bigger
things we could be focusing on and so
this protocol we have you know that's
why my skin is so pale is we we have
these iterations of these skin
treatments and according to our
measurement systems it's working like
across whole body all right I want to
start teasing out the difference between
slowing the Aging clock and actual
rejuvenation
I know we won't know for quite some time
and you were very thoughtful with your
earlier answer you do think that we will
ultimately be able to meaningfully
reverse age
um how much reversal are we going to be
able to do and
what what is the key to that is this
like getting methylation right like is
that really because I want to boil this
down into its simplest thing and if I
were to oversimplify based on my you
know look I've done so many of these
interviews now I'm really not your
average layperson but I'm definitely not
a scientist and I'm not at the bleeding
edge of this stuff but
methylation
if the hypothesis that I put out earlier
is accurate it seems like methylation is
something we really have to point to and
that is your cells begin to De um
differentiate so they are no longer the
eye the liver the skin they're just sort
of uh they're falling apart they don't
remember what kind of cell type they are
if that really is true the methylation
like that's going to be the thing zoom
in on that all the things that we're
eating it's working because it's helping
with methylation again this is just
hypothesis do you have a similar sort of
boiled down thing or just
I'm gonna guess the answer to this I
don't know if the audience is going to
love this or hate this but I want to see
if I'm really beginning to understand
what you're going to say is it's a waste
of time to make that hypothesis and that
the at today's current stage where
artificial intelligence is and all that
and where human intelligence is all you
can do is look at the data and so you're
going to try things you're going to look
at the data you're going to try things
and look at the data it's very
unsatisfying in an interview but if that
is the truth is that the truth
I mean Dr Zolman uh created this 78
Oregon quantification methodology and he
approached this saying
you need to approach uh the human system
by an organ by organ basis
you of course can do things for system
well-being like we have been doing and
so we this first phase of blueprint has
been entirely about getting the basics
right to slow the rate of Aging
we just started in the past month at
this phase two which is what you said
regeneration
and we're doing this on an Oregon by
Oregon basis so in the same way we can
we've looked at my heart and we've
Quantified it from a dozen or so
different age markers and once you have
those age markers you're armed with
going to the literature and saying what
evidence is there in literature that you
can regenerate the heart in these
functions or in this anatomical way
and that's how we're approaching the
entirety of regeneration and this is the
open question is can we in fact
reduce the biological age of me and its
entirety starting with organs and so it
may be epigenetics it may be the DNA
methylation maybe not so it's really TBD
but what we're doing is we have to start
with measurement and we have to look at
a system because your heart can be 70
years old and you're chronologically 30.
so your organs are at this very wide
range so you're not one age you're this
whole you're hundreds of different ages
and so that's what we're really trying
to do is break it down that's why you
need such robust measurement that's also
why I'm sharing this all publicly is
that the
I know from experience if you take this
to a doctor
it's a hard conversation to have with
the doctor they won't get it man uh like
you would have to be with somebody so
specialized I'm not saying no doctor
ever I'm just saying the realities of
the medical system is so overwhelming I
think about this in my own business I
spend so much time keeping the doors
open and the lights on that I don't get
to think enough about the future and all
of that yeah and so God I can only
imagine as a doctor you have to see so
many patients in your yeah your income
is dependent on the number of people
that you get through the door you don't
have time to be exactly and researching
this stuff I'm saying absolutely nothing
negative about doctors all I'm saying is
uh they have a way of doing things
and they have systems and they're played
within a system with insurance companies
and they they see patients like you're
saying and so I if somebody's trying to
do something that is not a part of the
system it's hard
which is why I've been sharing this with
everyone is then it creates it gives an
opportunity for a bunch of people to
jump in and start doing things in
different ways
but it it's this opportunity
for us to rethink entire like last night
I was
my I have so many ideas on my sleep
always the last night the idea that was
grinding away in my sleep was this idea
of gen zero so we say you know we you
tweeted that out yesterday or today yes
so it was my son's idea and I was
playing around with him uh with this
idea of zero principle thinking all that
kind of stuff and he said yeah gen zero
and it just stunned me and so last night
it was just churning in my sleep and I I
was trying to write in my mind a
paragraph of gen zero is you know uh in
the 21st century gen zero was a group of
you know people that spanned age and
gender and ethnicity and blank and they
came together and they effectively said
World K detaching ourselves from All
Things humans have built
and we're okay to walk into this unknown
future
in this system where we all move in
together doing this goal alignment
but it wasn't it was this delicate
relationship of like we honor what has
what the human race has created
we appreciate it for what it is
we also are not beholden to any of it
we're not trying to superimpose
ourselves on the future we're not saying
that what we have is the best thing that
any intelligent group in the universe
can create
we are flexible we are open
and we'll walk into this new system I
was trying to think of what are the
Contours of this new generation that is
you unified not just by date of birth
but unified by this philosophical
concept realizing time and place
if we buy into that together we can
because holding on to these
we love to grasp on to things with a
death grip and for us to let go
oftentimes the biggest impediment
and so I just couldn't get the thought
up out of my mind last night as like
what is this new group of people they
rally around and they find meaning in
this new new unification
so I mean really Tom like the and I know
I always go to these philosophical areas
and you're trying to be very proud I
don't know we got the the hardcore
practicality
to me so now I'm open the future here is
if we say the first goal is to create
goal alignment within self
and it raises this question who's in
charge Brian who sets the alarm Brian at
9pm who sets the alarm for 6 a.m or 6
a.m Brian who wants to hit the snooze
button and if we recognize the conflict
within us at thousands of points and we
say we need to go align within self
and for me doing that was removing the
tool I thought most important my own
mind removing myself and saying I'm
going to allow a system
solve this for me and then if we say
okay now I've got goal alignment with
himself you and I are going to have goal
alignment and we humans are going to
work on our goal alignment and we're
going to do it with artificial
intelligence and we're going to do it
with planet Earth
the future of our existence
is a computational fabric
of goal alignment of trillions of
intelligent agents and we are immersed
in this tapestry
and we're moving in this trajectory we
don't know where
but along the system and much like
Evolution has done on planet Earth and
produced but it's this system of
interwoven intelligence and we're part
of it and in doing that we may have
to consider different ways of being
and what we want to hold on to and how
much we're willing to let go and how
much we're willing to jump into this
expansive future to me it seems like
it's obvious like this is where it's
moving and these are the systems we want
to build so we can participate in this
Future Okay so I love that Vision the
data tells me that it will require
brutal authoritarian rule to get
everyone on board with that how do you
think through the the messiness of the
human mind because
to your point about the death grip
people grab on and they I have not seen
evidence that everyone can let go of
some people can you obviously can
but how do you deal with the problem you
know in religion the problem of evil
I'll call this the problem of human like
human's gonna human they're gonna be
grabbing onto things clutching desperate
unable to see that they exist inside of
a frame of reference they can't break
out of it
um how do you deal with that I've been
hosting these blueprint brunches at my
home with friends
uh called the first upper and I pose
this question this thought experiment I
say
if you could have a system that takes
care of you and gives you perfect health
you feel your very best
would you say yes to that knowing you're
going to have to make knowing that
you'll be making changes
that accommodate that so for example if
the algorithm has you in an ideal State
eating the majority of your food in the
morning you do so and you don't do so at
night like whatever things emerge unless
you say it changes something in your
life right so if you could achieve
perfect health from making some changes
almost inevitably the response is
no and a violent no and their and their
minds generate almost like chat gbt a
list of 45 reasons why existence no
longer makes sense for them because it's
a dystopian reality
because they're being forced to do it uh
just the thought just hits the brain in
a way where there's this knee jerk
reaction
and because I don't think that question
gets to the scary part yet so why are
they so let me reiterate what I heard
you just say
um there is a system that will give you
perfect health you'll have to follow the
system but there's a system that will
give you perfect health would you
implement that system and you're saying
people violently say no you say yes
because and I understand this it steps
on what they perceive to be their most
sacred attribute of existence their
their own decision Authority they're the
way you pose that question isn't scary
yet I so here's
from your retelling here's what they're
hearing and this I think is actually the
thing that I'm worried about but it
isn't what you asked and I just want to
make sure that we tease those two things
apart what it sounds like they're
hearing is if I gave you a system that
would give you perfect health and you
can't opt out you are going to do it
then I get why they would react
violently yeah so I guess maybe the
would you let people opt out like if you
were the so this is the thing so this is
not someone imposing this is your own
privately controlled system so that no
one's forcing it upon you and people
still react negatively well so that
doesn't compete yes I need you to the
punch line because there's a good
punchline here like but basically like
you're safe
it's okay there's no one behind this the
curtains pulling the strings this is all
about you and your private system with
your ideal health so there's no bad
things going on behind the scenes so
would you accept that and this the
trade-off is would you be willing to
consider the modifications of life
to do the thing and so what happens is
and it's what I'm trying to say is the
mind
immediately wants to reject it because
the mind wants to keep its authoritarian
power and so your comment to me of the
only way this could be implemented into
society would be an authoritarian
government superimposing on people what
I'm saying is
that what what you just said was my mind
over my body I had that my mind was a
tyrannical force over me forcing itself
upon All of Me My Heart couldn't speak
up my lungs couldn't speak up my kidney
couldn't speak up my mind did whatever
it wanted whenever it wanted and however
it wanted and the moment its Authority
is challenged it throws an absolute fit
and I saw this when I fired evening
Brian I said okay Brian from 5 P.M to 7
PM or 10 p.m he has no control he
absolutely like he eats way too much
food he's a very serious problem and
when I got to the day and I said
playfully you're fired and I started
implementing that I would write it five
and then he would show up and he'd be
like
just today or like just a little bit or
and then when the answer came back no
that version of Brian was on the floor
throwing a tantrum punching holes in the
wall Kicking and Screaming desperate for
control and so I saw this Behavior
inside I saw this whole argument
happening inside of me as I screamed for
control
but I knew that wasn't appropriate
because this this guy was really not in
my best interest and so what I'm saying
is it's it's this phenomena we have
within ourselves
within society and so if we're mindful
enough about this conversation
what I'm saying is we all have this
inside of us right now this unfair
relationship with selves but we
desperately defend it even though it
drives us to early death even though it
drives us to aging disease and the only
way I could solve my own problem was to
remove my mind who was forcing itself
upon on my body and have a system do it
and so if in these dinners it typically
it breaks people's brains because it
triggers this really tough response and
just like you everyone understands a
question just slightly differently and
they're like but wait a second what
about this what about this what about
that what about this but then at the end
of the conversation after we've walked
through it people get their bearings and
be like you know what you're right like
I have this nuanced relationship with
myself I have these different versions
of myself I'm not happy with all the
different versions
some of them I actually don't want in me
anymore and so you can but it takes a
little warm up because otherwise it
triggers really strong responses so to
me it's not about a government saying
everybody should do this it's about each
person this is what I'm saying if we
want to solve the problems that are
facing us
the biggest problems we have
it's not pointing out and finding who's
creating the biggest problem and shaming
them or yelling at them or telling them
what they're doing wrong the best thing
we can do is point itself and say how
can I solve the problems within me and
if we can solve the problems within
ourselves
we can begin to think about how to solve
problems together but I don't know if
we're going to be able to solve these
big problems if we just ignore the major
turmoil happening in each one of us and
we don't solve this fundamental problem
so again it we treat this planet the
same way we treat ourselves okay so
let's take the thought experiment as far
as we can to make it as hard as possible
so let's say the data is coming out it's
very clear that people have an evil
Overlord in their own mind the 5 to 10
pm Brian it's making poor decisions that
then actually damages the computer their
mind that they're using to approach the
world in a rational fashion and so now I
know I've got all the data in the world
just thought experiment every single
person that runs the protocol ends up
thinking in a more similar fashion
they're not at war with themselves
they're saying the same things you're
saying I would not trade the way that I
feel now for anything in the world thank
God I ran the protocol
every person one after another after
another after another
so we know it works
would you let people opt out knowing
they're they're opting out almost
certainly because their computer's
broken
and so if we just forced them just for a
little while so that they could think
clearly and then they would all come
over to this camp but would you let them
opt out every intelligent agent
can choose as they
they can choose what they want to do the
goal here is to goal align among all
agents
and every agent every person when I say
agent I just mean we need to think about
this in terms of AI and humans and the
planet it's no longer just humans we're
playing with in a much broader game here
and we really need to understand the
game has changed every agent is going to
make decisions in this Fabric and just
like we do today and people play the
your life
with their various decisions we may turn
a corner however is if we arrive
I'm not sure
that many of us look around right now
and we're giving the world two thumbs up
on how we're doing Maybe
there's a better way of doing things
and maybe
if we could solve this fundamental
problem of self-destruction not only
within self but cheering on capitalistic
systems in the world who
cause people to commit self-harm who
self-destructive behaviors who encourage
them to commit self-destructive Behavior
if we can solve these fundamental things
and so it's not so violent
maybe we'd feel different about each
other maybe to feel different about
doing this as a society right now it's
reasonable to distrust because you know
in the moment you get into a
relationship with some kind of
system that you know you have to be
suspicious they're going to take
advantage of you because it's not
embedded in our morals and fabric you
know morals and ethical systems yet that
that's just not
appropriate and so I understand what
you're saying it really takes a few
steps to think through this of get into
a mindset where you feel safe that
people and
corporations are not out to get you
you're in a system of goal alignment
you're moving along each person can make
different decisions on different things
with certain variations but it's just a
different way of being I'll give you all
that
but I'll ask like yes or no style would
you let people opt out so it works
everyone that does it there is a better
way all of that but will you let them
opt out and do dumb things oh I mean I
have no Authority but if magic wand
you now can do it
do you think that that would be a
desirable outcome
to let people do dumb things they're
putting us at risk it's a necessity it's
I to let them do dumb things yes it's uh
it's interesting you really I didn't
think you were going to answer the
question that way so this is utterly
fascinating so just to put my own card
on the table I think you have to let
people do dumb things as much as I find
it very distressing and it makes me very
sad dumb I mean basically uh self-harm
this the system
requires agent action it requires
that freedom of movement that's what the
whole system is it it
um
it's because it's going to produce
richness of outcome it's not entirely
negative right there's like this
diversity and unexpectedness and uh
iteration it needs to have
characteristics
characteristics meaning
you were talking earlier about the
element of surprise like there's the
unexpected all that so there is a
richness in that that you think is
ultimately desirable for humans okay
that's really interesting and I actually
thought you were going somewhere else so
I'm very fascinated by that
um
one thing that I think is
I may be approaching the problem just
from a radically different perspective
which is so going back to I want you're
having a biological experience to be on
my Tombstone and I've heard people say a
lot until you change the biology you're
never going to change the outcome like
humans are going to do humany things and
we know what that looks like it looks
like exactly what we have right now and
systems basically
um you start from scratch and you build
something up and it gets amazing and
then you get to the point where the
meaning making machine begins to break
down people don't have to fight anymore
I remember one of my earliest
realizations was some people need to be
chased by a lion and I wasn't even sure
what I meant by that was probably my
early 20s where I was just like I get
the feeling that some people actually be
better off if life was really hard and
there's almost this like Surplus time to
ruminate that gets people in a lot of
trouble and so whether it's childhood
trauma or whatever if you're not
fighting for your life like that can be
all-consuming okay let me piece this
together
so you're having a biological experience
um there is I think a hyper predictable
outcome to the way that the human mind
is wired and it's it happens at
different rates at different times
largely based on geography which then
gives birth to culture culture
ultimately speaks to your frame of
reference which I could do a whole
episode on what frame of reference is
but it is the water to the fish you see
life entirely through your frame of
reference but yet it is completely
invisible to you
one country is going to do well for a
while and then it's going to crumble
every Empire that has ever existed has
also Fallen apart so there's something
in here that's predictable but it's just
different enough over time and all that
that it it Rhymes but it's not perfectly
predictable but on the grand Arc of
humanity I think this is relatively
predictable you're being led by the nose
by your biology you've already
identified that that there's your uh
conglomeration of a bunch of different
wants desires micro personalities all
that and they're all sort of competing
and if you could get your diet and sleep
gross generalization if you could get
those right your frame of reference
would be altered so profoundly you would
begin making different decisions but for
me to try to force you into that shoot I
break something in the way the human
mind works and all hell breaks loose
the other part of this that is really
interesting now we have to get into
kernel and why you're doing all of that
is we may be and it's always dangerous
to say this time it's different but we
may actually be on the precipice because
of artificial intelligence where
everything really is going to change and
to put a really fine point on it you
said the exact reason why this is what
Ray Kurzweil calls The Singularity which
people are now defining differently but
I think the right way to define the
singularity around artificial
intelligence is it is the point at which
you can no longer predict the future
your your ability to understand how many
zeros the zero principle meaning that we
go from zero to one just over and over
these are things that weren't guessable
from the previous moment they are the
einsteinian Breakthrough of oh no no
Newtonian physics is actually wrong its
special relativity it's general
relativity it's all completely different
Quantum World Cup it was always there
yeah but now we're like holy cow like
this is real really really different so
when you have Einstein level zero to one
realizations coming off at 10 a day 100
a thousand a day where you have a
computer that can do 20 000 years worth
of self-improvement overnight it you you
can't predict the next hour let alone
the next day week your whatever that's
right so if we really are on the
precipice of that moment then it's like
well we have to be uniquely thoughtful
so to bring your whole world view
together and then we'll go into kernel
it's hey because that's so real and oh
by the way it all starts with this food
which is why we began the episode here
because you have to change your biology
in order to change your frame of
reference in order to see this moment
clearly enough
but now this moment is very real and we
have to find a way to align our goals
internally interpersonally and with
artificial intelligence well said
I have the chills because I'm worried
that you're right and that this is a
really big complicated thing but how
true to how I've experienced life that
it all begins with food
just one thing on yours the whole thing
is basically
something big is happening
wouldn't it be amazing if we could
cooperate
that's it
and to cooperate I need to help you with
your biology we in order for us to
cooperate we need to cooperate within
ourselves
and incorporate with each other
and cooperate with our this new form of
intelligence and we need to cooperate
with planet Earth
we need to cooperate
to move forward and that's if you look
at the world and you measure the
acrimony and the violence and the hate
you know like yes things are moving
along but
could we do a better job and so really
boil the whole thing down yes like can
we figure out systems of cooperation
okay
um I took down a quote but I turned my
phone off so I'm gonna have to
paraphrase it this is you
it goes something like this I can't
imagine a world in which in I think it
was 50 years in 50 years from now that
humans are relevant if they can't learn
to read and write
in the language of the brain you didn't
say language of the brain but neurology
or something like that
um
what do you mean by that and how is
Colonel helping to address that
in the in the same way that blueprint
makes uh
maintaining perfect diet and Engineering
discipline
so we're not we're trying to avoid
guesswork
we're trying to avoid uh
people riffing on the spot we're trying
to say we want as good of data as we can
from as many data points as we can we
want to look at evidence we want to
protocol
I'm suggesting it might make sense to do
the same thing with our mind the
wellness of our minds and So when you
buy an appliance
you don't think about whether it's going
to fit through your door
you just assume it will and you don't
think about it
and we do all kinds of things every day
where we just do something because we
assume that it's just going to work in
society so Society builds itself
according to engineering standards
we figure out the size of a door then
appliances are built for that size and
all the above
we currently have few ways to build
engineering standards around our own
mental well-being
because we don't have measurement and so
we have a cognition crisis in the world
today with mental health
and we have as a way of measurement we
have our feelings to express
but we don't have good ways to measure
the brain frequently with high
resolution and it leaves us with this
huge blind spot
so how much
social media is good for the brain
how much social interaction is good for
the brain what happens when someone does
ketamine or to the brain over a 30-day
time period what happens when someone
does an SSRI what happens when and fill
in that blank with hundreds of examples
we don't have good examples we don't
have good data so the technology to
image the brain uh gold standard fmri
but it's too big and too expensive it's
a million multi-million dollar machine
room size system on the lower end of EEG
which is easier to do but it's not good
enough so there's this huge gaping hole
which is why none of us measure our
brains on a regular basis and so the
idea with kernels we've built this
helmet
that can measure your brain it looks at
your cortex and we can answer questions
so for example I did ketamine while
wearing this brain device flow and we
looked at my brain my ketamine of all
the drugs uh it was the fastest path to
do because we could do it in healthy
participants
if we did something like psilocybin or
MDMA we had to set up a trial and so
this is a way for us to do it quickly
but we wanted to pose the question what
happens in the brain when someone does
ketamine and so I measured my brain
every day for five days
that I measured it when I did ketamine I
had a 68 milligram intramuscular dose
according to an FDA recipe and then I
measured my brain for 30 days after and
we now have data showing what happened
in my brain over a 35 day time period
when I did ketamine and it helps
Baseline so what we showed from the
study is a 15 person study that a
person's response to ketamine predicted
their depressive symptoms a week later
their response to ketamine so not taking
it or not taking it how they responded
they're actually the amplitude of that
responsible actually how they responded
to ketamine
predicted their depressive symptoms a
week later meaning if you respect Define
responded like positively what was the
data point just meaning like the the
signatures of the brain response that we
recorded So the type of signature how
Universal is this for example think of
uh how carrots uh create a response in
you if you're glycemic yep so same thing
Academy someone experiences ketamine
everyone has a varied response and so
what you're trying to solve with
ketamine is uh who's it going to work on
uh how well is it working how many doses
do they need at what frequency for
depression yeah or for anything else
cadmium could be used for but you're
basically trying to figure out just like
okay so uh think of curl like a blood
glucose monitor you put that on and
you're trialing certain foods like when
I eat grapes spikes carrots Spike when I
eat this and you're creating this
intuition of what happens to your body
when you have these foods have you
created an AI algorithm that says these
brain patterns or brain States I'm not
sure how you think about it but are
these brain patterns or brain states are
they are good and these other ones are
bad and so you took ketamine and you now
four days later are in good brain
activity versus somebody who took it and
didn't respond in the to the degree that
we would want them to respond and they
are now in bad negative sub-optimum
again not sure what words you would use
brain patterns is that how you're
thinking of it I mean the language of
the discipline is not yet to a good and
bad State their observations about
networks and how they operate and so
it's still an emergent area but you can
tease out what are the defining patterns
of a person's experience and so we know
what depression looks like yeah starting
to get exactly to get patterns of you
know of these things and again the
science is emerging but just to
basically say
we can acquire patterns of the brain
they give us insight to these basic
questions should a person do ketamine
MDMA and SSRI breath work nothing blank
blank blank blank we don't know and
should I do one of these or 10 of these
and how do you manage the markers and
should they eliminate social media from
their database and should they we just
have no idea how to modulate the
well-being of our brain how good is the
reading so I've seen the video of it
looks really cool but I don't is that
like
um feeling
uh micro bumps through mittens or are we
like really like able to to get a good
read how how good is the helmet that's
the question
it's better than what we have right now
which is nothing and so another study we
did which will help build intuitions we
looked at alcohol dose response so we
said we had a placebo a low and then a
medium alcohol and so we found that when
people had a a low alcohol uh response
they
um they became impaired
uh when they did behavioral measures
that you couldn't identify their
impairment they behaved as if they were
not impaired we could see the impairment
in the brain because the brain
compensates for the impairment and the
person performs as well in the tasks as
though they were not impaired but we can
see it
when they became sufficiently
intoxicated they became so impaired the
brain lost its ability to make up for it
so this is the same thing that happens
in cognitive decline so cognitive
decline starts many many years before
the behavioral measures happen because
the brain is compensating for the
decline yeah and so this whole idea is
we can record things in the brain
that we are unaware of and so in this
case when people were self-reporting
whether or not they were intoxicated you
know impaired
it was wildly inaccurate and so the
fundamental question is can I rely upon
myself report my ability to feel what
I'm experiencing reported is that an
accurate representation of what is going
on in my brain no
so if we can't rely upon that
and we can't measure it we're Flying
Blind in society as we build systems of
mental Wellness
which like you look at the world and
it's like we're I don't know if we're
doing great I don't know if we give
ourselves a five-star review in the
mental Wellness of society and so flow
is meant to say we can record uh this
brain activity and we can apply it to
everything
that will allow us to create intuitions
and data and protocols so it's basically
blueprint but for the brain where you're
taking this system of measurement and it
gives scientists ways to measure their
psychedelics you know as they develop
these things whether they want a because
we could pick up a a signature of
whether someone is going through a
altered state of conscience or not it's
something that could
level up the way in which we
fix things that are broken in the brain
and improve things that are working are
you guys using AI because this feels
like
I can use it I can kick off all this
data but if I don't have something
that's aggregating these patterns then
and not just aggregating them but
looking at them and associating them
either with self-reported feelings or
something but something has to make the
correlation right something has to tell
me uh your HRV was too flat and by the
way you want this much variability as
optimal do you guys have that kind of
read on the data
so that is exactly what we're doing
we're trying to do right now so we are
looking at
um
basically an HIV for the brain so we're
looking at the default mode Network
which is a big circuit in the brain that
has it's very studied
and when the default mode network is
poorly regulated
sometimes bad things happen ADHD
depression anxiety when the default mode
network is well regulated a person's in
a better State now there's a lot of
studies showing the power of looking for
the default mode Network and what we've
done is we've built a system where you
put flow in your head you look at a
screen and you're training your default
mode Network so it's almost I think
about like trying to control move your
air you're not quite sure how to do it
you just like think about it long enough
and eventually you find the muscle and
it's like ah there it is I can now move
my ear so you're using it like bio
feedback no feedback whoa and so it's
basically think of it like you so I can
watch it live exactly you watch you
watch a screen so we all know going to
the gym to work out biceps or work out
the legs you do exercises that get
stronger it helps you in everything in
life
we're saying you can basically go to the
gym
for a brain muscle that's really
important to everything
managing things that have gone wrong
improving things are going well
preparing yourself for adversity so
there's a lot of studies showing the
promise it's not yet Beyond reproach
that's there we're trying to prove the
science but that's what we think is
potentially the most interesting thing
right now is can we isolate the default
mode Network can people wear this and
can they do bio nerve feedback looking
at your screen and learn how to build
this muscle and if they do that I mean
for example could soldiers do this
so that when they encountered something
that was PTSD inducing it'd be less of a
blow or could you do something where
when a person's in a negative state of
anxiety depression that instead of
taking a a pill to try to address it
they build the muscle to counteract it
and it's an active thing they do and so
we're excited about this where our first
data is coming out in a month of where
we're at we need to answer questions
like how many people can successfully do
this over how many sessions how long
does it last so it's still emergent but
we like the idea as a practical
demonstration of build a muscle in your
brain that helps you resilient be
resilient to bad things and improve the
things that are already working well
dude so I used I had a very debilitating
back problem at one point where it was
technically my scalenes so I I couldn't
even sit or stand like everything was
uncomfortable I'm not a crier but it
made me want to cry like I had this
sense of like I if I could just weep
about this that it would I would somehow
have emotional catharsis that I needed
it was that like all-encompassing in my
life oh God it was miserable and
I of course thought well it's it's a
problem here with my scalings or it's a
problem with my neck as it turned out
it's the mid of my back had a weakness
and when I went to see a physiotherapist
he was like oh I know exactly what your
problem is I see this a lot like you
need to fire these muscles and I'm like
I am firing those muscles he's like no
you're not and he was like touching me
he's like you're not firing them at all
he's like I'm going to give you a
biofeedback device I'm going to put uh
you know a little electrode or whatever
on that part of the muscle yeah and this
device is going to beep whenever you
actually fire that and it
was life-changing yeah so I finally
learned I was like
I was like oh my God and so by being
able to hear it I completely eliminated
my scaling problem because I was able to
finally figure out how to work out those
muscles was just mind-blowing so as
somebody who has struggled with profound
anxiety the thought of being like ah I
know what scenarios put the helmet on
and be like there's calm dude that could
be I've heard you we're not sure yet
lots left to do but if that works
anything like the biofeedback that I got
on my back it that's life-changing yeah
I love your experience that's exactly
what we're trying to do so how does one
encounter that now is that they have to
come to your clinic and it's all sort of
pre
um commercialization yeah we're actually
getting volunteers right now to do our
preliminary study then we'll do a second
study based upon those results so yeah
you can come to Colonel uh we I think we
have it on the website you can sign up
and then if we can show compelling
results we want to get this to clinics
all over the world and we want this to
be in people's homes because if like
you're saying um
if you can in fact focus on this brain
muscle
and it has this
connection to a whole bunch of things
it could be meaningfully impactful in a
lot of people's lives and it's not just
the the device doesn't just work for the
default mode Network it's just the
network we chose all right there's all
kinds of networks in the brain we could
we could train it on and so it's just
the very beginning and then once you
have the data and the networks you start
playing with interventions like okay so
now you're doing this exercise now you
can add these other things does it help
does it hurt does it accelerate and
that's really we're trying to kick off
a an enthusiastic uh Improvement of our
mental well-being across the board so
not just address things that are bad
like ADHD depression and so on but also
performance concentration and
Imagination and creativity and
resilience so it's full spectrum and so
the technology is built took us five
years to build uh people
suggested to us is impossible we did it
successfully the team's remarkable and
now we need to prove the science in this
window of time we have which is a big
task and we we chose an impossibly hard
thing to do with this company
yes you did now what what is the hard
part is it getting the light through the
skull is it making sense of the which I
guess for people that don't know that's
what you guys are doing using photons
right you shoot them into the brain it's
exactly the way the sun works so nobody
should be freaked out Sun penetrates you
far Deeper Than People realize so you're
zapping photons in people's brains some
of them bounce back out the ones that
come back out tells us what we need to
know about what's going on
um is that the hard part like what's the
what's the impossible I mean it's like
everything's hard uh it's yeah it's
basically it's a pulse oximeter so a lot
of people became familiar with pulse
oximeters during covid you put this on
your finger you see a red glow and it
tells you your heart rate and your blood
oxygenation uh and so it's just a pulse
oximeter for the brain very safe uh like
you said it less light in your brain
than you're going out the Sun and by
looking by doing that you tease out
patterns of the brains you can see how
the brain is firing which regions are
talking in which regions so you have
this really beautiful Matrix of data and
so it's like um
yeah it's just it's the once you have a
device that can acquire information like
so a blood glucose monitor you wear or
like a genome sequence or a microbiome
sequence or a blood panel whenever you
have these measurements you get it it
creates an entire ecosystem that
surrounds itself with a measurement and
they build around it and right now we're
Flying Blind to brain you know like so
it is trying to create a formal
data-driven discipline around our mental
well-being it's the only device in the
world that has the ability that is low
cost enough high quality enough and easy
enough to use there's nothing else that
can do it and so we need to show this
can punch through we have not done that
yet we're close but now we're just
playing in the realm of Science and you
just can't predict science we don't know
when we're going to reach a threshold to
say
it's there now it could be in a month it
could be three months it could be 12
months we don't know and that's the hard
thing about deep Tech is you you can't
engineer science in a way that is
predictable
yeah and you seem to really be following
the data which I really appreciate
um
so using the technology
on a daily basis to find some sort of
ability to use that muscle in order to
shape the way that you feel is one of
those things that man that could really
be transformational but I want to know
why did you go down that path so I know
you and Elon spoke early on in the
process and you were originally about
implantation in the brain and so tying
this back into your quote if humans
don't figure out how to write read and
write in the language of Neurology
they're going to be irrelevant why did
you give up on what seems like it would
be way more like you'd be able to do far
more manipulation if you actually get
inside the brain yeah the uh my analysis
was that building an implantable product
uh takes around 10 years ish once you
build it to go through trials get the
clinical outcomes it's like 10 years ago
to Market
thereabouts and then you start the
rollout process you're going through the
healthcare system and insurance
companies it's a it's a long slow
process now it has its place and it's
done there's over 300 000 people who
have implants today whoa so it's been
it's been wildly successful to treat
things like Parkinson's and other things
it has shortcomings in that it's not
scaled very easily you know you're
dealing with surgery and you're dealing
with neurosurgeons of like how many
people can actually do it
at the time nobody thought there was a
non-invasive path to do it if you just
surveyed the world and Sample people
everyone would have told you no path and
so we spent two years looking at every
possible path we could look at according
to the laws of physics and we did
everything and we found a path that we
could just barely see through everything
had to work to make that happen and we
threaded the needle and we succeeded we
we built the technology it works we have
peer review Publications on this and it
it does it and so my bet was the time
scale it takes to develop an implantable
product is going to be a hard one
because the other technologies will come
and compete with it will be less
invasive
will come along at a faster clip than
this development process it'll be better
to be a non-invasive for the short term
and then secondarily is when you write
to the brain you of course can stimulate
so if you're implanted in the brain you
can stimulate a region of the brain but
there's a hundred billion neurons you're
not going to stimulate all 100 billion
neurons whereas you you and I right now
are stimulating each other's neurons
through audio visual inputs so if you
have a device on the head you have the
full human sensory system for the inputs
you can write to the brain through all
those modalities and that's what that's
what I wanted to try to trade off is
could you build a device that could be
scaled across the globe
standardize the measurement of our
brains
give every scientific discipline
the ability to use this data to improve
their disciplines to improve The Human
Condition and then you can have all
these modalities to write to the brain
so could you start a new era of human
well-being in our minds with this basic
measurement of the brain and that was
the BET we've made and so we succeeded
in the first part of the technology
build we now have to show our first
Market demonstration so the investors
say we're good you know like we've I've
poured heart and soul I've put over uh
I've put almost 60 million dollars in
this company uh you know and taking it
through covet and the financial crisis
like it's just been it's been
unbelievably hard to build
it's a pretty big uh Challenge and I
would say like that which makes these
results on blueprint that much more
impressive if you look at the amount of
stress
that
I felt in
building this startup with these
difficulties uh
and still achieve these results I mean
like I'm not you'd be 19 if you weren't
a Founder I mean I'm not yeah I'm not
just chilling at home all day like you
know like building a startup is an
absolute full contact sport I mean it's
brutal and then this company is brutal
and so um yeah
um it's been fun to do both uh Colonel's
been extraordinarily taxing you know
it's it's tough
I bet brother what a joy this has been
where can people follow you Twitter I
mostly hang out and have conversation
there Brian underscore Johnson awesome
I'll be coming at you hot and fast on
Twitter man this was so fun guys if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
peace if you want the secrets to
reversing aging and looking younger be
sure to watch this episode here
reversing aging of the eye that's not
hard at all
but we can reverse the age of the liver
the skin other labs are doing the spleen
thymus through this method
[Music]